One of the first things urbanists will bring up when trying to convince you that cities are the best way to organize is that they are more energy efficient per capita than the sprawling suburbs.  But there are suburbs which are trying to turn that idea on its head with "solar suburbs" with solar panels on every house and electric cars in every garage.  The Rocky Mountain Institute sees net zero energy suburbs as possible.  

The first piece of the puzzle is solar power itself.  Unlike in a city, the low density of suburbs makes it possible (when sunny) to rely completely on rooftop solar cells - a private home can be powered by solar panels covering the roof and have electricity to spare while an apartment building roof covered in solar panels can't power the dozens or hundreds of apartments it contains.  The private household solar business is growing rapidly, growing 50% annually for the past decade.  And there are a number of communities working together to start outfitting their houses with solar cells including Palm Springs in California and Boulder Colorado. 

The solar panel technology is already good enough to power a house when the sun is shining and still produce excess electricity, but when the sun isn't out you need to get electricity from elsewhere.  Ideally solar powered houses would store excess in batteries, but current battery technology is still big and expensive.  The biggest differentiator between cities and suburbs is the much greater efficiency of mass transit and shorter commutes in cities compared to commuting long distances in private vehicles.  And batteries are also part of what's holding back electric cars.  But progress is being made here as well.  Tesla has been making advances in battery technology for their fully electric cars, and they are now starting to make that technology available for household storage in the Powerwall home battery.

Currently there isn't high adoption in America of either home solar (less than 1% of houses) or plug in electric cards (less than 1% of new car sales), but the technology is becoming cheaper and more easily available, but Cisco DeVries, the chief executive of Renew Financial says "The pace of change for distributed energy will start to look a lot like the iPhone revolution pretty quickly."